Mitt Romney might be the richest major
party candidate of all time but how rich
is MIT we're here to find out now and
when you've spent over a month going
kind of item by item asset by asset for
Mitt Romney trying to figure out exactly
how much Mitt Romney is worth how did
you go about doing this that's right we
took a look at each of mr. Romney's over
a hundred and eighty assets individually
and came up with a value for each of
them to evaluation for every single one
of his listed assets that's right and
yet a lot of proprietary reporting -
there's a lot of things in here that are
not in the public disclosures from
people who are familiar with this
portfolio from people are familiar with
his holdings as real estate etcetera
that's right we also talked to a number
of private equity and local real estate
experts to really get a solid valuation
pinned down on those assets okay well
let's figure out how much is it worth
so let's start with debt securities it
turns out that Mitt Romney's biggest
asset is dead tell us how much do they
have in and debt secured yeah it's the
biggest chunk of his portfolio and it
comes to 91 million now he's got some
really plain vanila stuff he's moved in
recent months into debt from foreign
countries a little bit
Sweden Canada but he also has a lot here
at home specifically 36 million dollars
worth of federal home loan bank notes
and about 10 million dollars where the
structured notes from Goldman Sachs and
BNP pariahs so the bulk obviously of his
wealth emanated from Bain how much does
he still have at Bain when Mitt Romney
left Bain he secured himself a
retirement deal where he got a share of
Bain profits from February 1999 till
February 2009 and also the right to
invest alongside his former partners
currently we estimate Romney to have
about 52 million dollars invested across
being funds of all types now that's
private equity leveraged buyout funds
hedge funds and venture capital funds 52
million in Bain whether they have
outside of Bain in the hedge fund area
and kind of a alternative investment
area outside of Bain Romney has about
twenty nine million dollars managed an
alternative funds now a lot of that is
managed by a close associates such as
the son that saw Amir capital lose money
with Paul singer
billionaire Paul singers Elliott
associates manages at least a million
dollars of mr. Romney's money mutual
funds a little more conventional how
much does they have there yeah between
mutual funds and ETFs Romney has about
twenty three million dollars invested
and then we've got a real estate now
he's done really he's done a kind of a
reshuffling of his real estate portfolio
recently tell us about right yeah in
2009 the Romney sold their Belmont
Massachusetts Colonial now that they'd
been in that house since 1989 when they
bought it for 1.25 million they sold it
for three and a half they've since moved
into a little more modest condo they
purchased that recently for a little
less than $900,000 the real moneys in
the vacation has exactly their the
Romney Summer compound up in Wolfeboro
New Hampshire that's value to 8 million
dollars the currently assessed and their
beach house out in La Jolla California
was assessed to eight point seven
million we took the real estate experts
I believe who said they're probably
underwater on that so they're they're
not the only people right a real estate
what's the tunnel for real estate for
the Romneys we're at 18 million clear of
debt let's talk about cash cash is king
how much cash to do the romney's head
well the romney's have in recent months
at least since last summer have moved
towards cash they have about sixteen
million dollars you know in cash
accounts money markets and and bank
deposit cash in cash the coolest that's
that's new because they're in their last
filing they only had about a million so
so your sources are telling you in the
last few months they've been moving a
lot of money in the cash right they
dumped their foreign equity manager and
they've gotten out of a lot of domestic
equities as we'll see and some of that
money seems to have found its way into
the romney cash pot so it does two
things one it probably it politically
insulates them in terms of there's no
controversy when you're holding cash in
terms of well your underlying assets are
and also in a pinch if he has to loan
money to his campaign and that was
probably more relevant during the primer
as he had the cash the war chest to do
that right stocks so what did they own
in terms of individual equities at the
last filing in August of 2011 the
Romney's had over 70 individual equities
that they held through their blind
trusts currently that number is three
mm-hmm they own Ford Motor so they've
had a big sell-off right and
Summa bleep politically-motivated who
needs to have individual stocks when
you're running for president right but
headaches examine you've got this much
in Knesset exactly so right now they
have Ford Motor Marriott and Marriott
Vacations are the three equities of the
how much total for first up about
$600,000 $600,000 central bucket what do
they have in the transportation
department here okay for getting around
the Romneys have an interest in an
entity called Rob ROM enterprises now
that's a california-based LLC that
actually owns horses but these
thoroughbreds or they have some horses
actually on the dressage circuit also
the Romneys themselves are known to own
and ride horses when MS Romney was
diagnosed with MS in 1998 she's found
horseback riding as a good form of
therapy so the couple have been known to
to ride the car guy what is it yeah
Romney reportedly has a 2005 Mustang and
he owns some Ford stock so it's good
there and he has a 2002 Chevy and a
couple of more recent model year cattle
it's all totally we have four horses and
cars $425,000 and lastly for all the
gold bugs out there they have some gold
what uh how much the Romney's uh hold
about a quarter of a million dollars or
two hundred and sixty thousand dollars
in gold they hold that directly outside
of their various blind trusts and IRAs
okay a little downside protection so all
told we take this all together what do
we have for net worth for Mitt Romney
our current net worth estimate for mr.
Mitt Romney is two hundred and thirty
million dollars two hundred and thirty
million dollars and that doesn't include
the kids right back in 1995 mr. and mrs.
Romney actually set up a trust that is
not counted towards this as they have no
way to get the money back legally that's
worth about a hundred million dollars
today with their five sons as
beneficiary so two hundred thirty
million dollars for the Romney's one
hundred million dollars for their sons
nice day at the office yeah not so bad
and again to get this you
she valued every single asset they own
how many different assets right over 180
individual assets one by one in terms of
figuring out a very good estimate for
each individual asset cuz that's a two
hundred thirty million dollars from Mitt
Romney in terms of total dollars he
would be the richest president but if
you adjust for inflation Washington if
we took a relation into account colonial
presidents large landowners such as
Washington or maybe even Jefferson would
probably have mr. Romney beat well
nothing to sneeze at two hundred thirty
million dollars thank you for the for
the great research